The folder contains output files generated by the source code as it is. We ran the simulation on Haswell V3 28 core processor. Users can run a simulation without modifying the source files, and compare the results with the provided samples. 

# Details of each file
` 1. evo_summary_81.txt`
This file gives an overview of the evolution. The number “81” in the filename is the random number seed used in a simulation. Each row lists the vital information at each evolutionary step. The columns are:

**Step**: current evolutionary step

**N_tot_mut_tried**: number of mutations tried since the beginning

**N_mut_tried_this_step**: number of mutations tried at the current step 

**N_hit_bound**: accumulative number of mutations that push a kinetic constant to the biological bounds

**accepted_mut**: the mutation that is accepted at the current step

**selection_coeff**: selection coefficient of the accepted mutant

**avg_fitness**: fitness. 

**fitness1**: should be the same as **avg_fitness**. avg_fitness used to be the average of fitness1 and fitness2, which are the fitness of the network under two environments. We only made a selection condition for pulse generator under environment 1 and left environment 2 unused. 

**fitness2**: should be all zero.  

**se_avg_fitness**: standard error of the fitness. 

**se_fitness1**: should be the same as ** se_avg_fitness **.

**se_fitness2**: should be all zero.

**N_genes**: number of genes and variants (the signal is counted as a gene)

**N_effector_genes**: number of effector genes and variants

**N_proteins**: number of proteins (include the signal. Gene variants are treated as the same protein)
	 

`2. networks.txt`
This file summarizes the topology of the TRN evolved at an evolutionary step. We use a table to record the number of TFBs of each TF on each gene. For example:
```
step 50
Gene   a0     r1     r2     A3     which_protein AND_gate_capable
1      3      2      1      2           A3             N
2      1      0      1      0           r1             N
3      3      2      1      2           A3             N
4      3      2      1      1           A3             N
5      1      0      1      0           r1             N
6      1      1      2      1           r2             N
7      1      1      2      1           r2             N
8      1      1      2      1           r2             N
 ```
The table shows the TRN at step 50. Each row is a gene. The header labels TFs by **a**ctivator or **r**epressor (if the TF is also an effector then the letter is in upper case), followed by a number to specify their identity in the proteome. The signal is always an activator and is always the first protein in the proteome, therefore is labeled a0. The column **which_protein** specifies which protein the gene encodes.  In this example, the first row means that gene 1 contains 3 TFBS of the signal, 2 TFBS of repressor 1, 1 TFBSs of repressor 2, and 2 TFBSs of activator 3 which is also the effector. Row 1 also states that gene 1 encodes activator 3, and is capable of being regulated via an AND gate logic between activators (meaning that one activator is able to enhance gene expression).

The program by default does not summarize TRN at every evolutionary step. Use OUTPUT_INTERVAL (see readme of the code) to control the frequency of output.

`3. N_motifs.txt`
Each row of the file lists the numbers of motifs in the TRN evolved at an evolutionary step. We count 17 types of motifs (see **motifs.png** in this folder), which corresponds to the first 17 columns of the files. 

`4. accepted_mutation_81.txt`
Each row is the mutation that is accepted at an evolutionary step. The columns are: 

Col1: mutation type, i.e. nucleotide substitution, gene deletion, gene duplication, consensus binding sequence, gene-specific kinetic constant, identity of TF, affinity of TF (Kd), and length of gene.

Col2: the id of gene that is mutated

Col3: the nucleotide that is substituted

Col4: the new nucleotide

Col5: the code of kinetic constant that is mutated, 0 for *r_Act_to_Int*, 1 for *r_mRNA_deg*, 2 for *r_protein_syn*, and 3 for *r_protien_deg*. 

Col6: new value for mutated quantitative variable. Stored in hexadecimal form.

` 5. sim_setup_81.txt`
This file records the initial condition and selection condition of a simulation.

` 6. init_mutatable_parameters.txt`
Values of gene-specific variables at initialization. Each row is a gene (the first row is always the signal), and columns are values of *r_Act_to_Int*, *r_mRNA_deg*, *r_protein_syn*, *r_protien_deg*, *l*, and log10(Kd(0)).

` 7. end_mutatable_parameters.txt`
Values of gene-specific variables at the end of a simulation.

`8. RngSeeds.txt`
The state of random number generator at the end of an evolutionary step. The state is stored every 20 evolutionary steps by default. Modify OUTPUT_INTERVAL (see readme of the code) to change the frequency of saving.

`9. precise_fitness.txt`
Each row is the fitness of the resident genotype, expressed in hexadecimal form.

` 10. saving_point.txt`
In case the program has to be terminated before completion (e.g. running at windfall mode on a HPC), a “saving point” is made periodically so that the program can be continued. The first number in the file indicates the last evolutionary step before the program is terminated prematurely; the second number is **N_tot_mut_tried** at the last evolutionary step.  When a simulation is continued, the program replays mutation stored in `accepted_mutation_81.txt` up to the evolutionary step specified in `saving_point.txt`, load fitness of the resident genotype from `precise_fitness.txt`, and set the random number generator to the state accordingly. The file is generated every 20 evolutionary steps by default. Modify OUTPUT_INTERVAL (see readme of the code) to change the frequency of saving.

` 11. all_mutations.txt`
Similar to accepted_mutation_81.txt, but additionally list mutations that were not accepted. 

Col1: the evolutionary step at which the mutation is generated

Col2: total number of mutations generated so far

Col3 – Col8 are the same as Col - Col6 of accepted_mutation_81.txt

` 12. fitness_all_mutants.txt`
Lists the low-resolution genotype fitness of every mutant, regardless of whether the mutant is accepted. 
